Hawaii is a land of legends that survived through generations in this tropical paradise.

One of the most enduring of these stories tells the birth of the hula.

More than 300 years ago, the hula started.

Well, as far as legend tells, when Hiyaka and her good friend Hopoy went down the beach, then while they were there, 

They notice the waves and they imitated the waves and then they started to use their hands like you know portraying the waves and all and that's how the hula started.

When Christian missionaries landed on these shores in 1820, they were shocked by the scantily clad people performing ungodly dances.

So shocked that they persuaded then-Queen Keikumani to ban the dance.

So, the hula went underground for almost sixty years.

Except for a few people who managed to get official permission, it was performed in secret.

These days, a resurgence of Hawaiian pride has brought new interest in elements of Hawaiian culture, like the hula.

More and more people are attending Hilaus schools where the dance is taught with traditional values and discipline.

Learning the dance requires dedication and hard work.

Dancers spend long hours perfecting their routines.

For hula master Kumanu Palani Kulala, the dance is a way to make the best of ancient Hawaiian culture relevant to a modern audience.

I try to instill in my students that the hula is more not so much a physical thing but more of a mental and a spiritual thing.

For them, the dancing means very little because for Hawaiians today, many of them don't speak the language.

So, what I try to do is to bring to mind the reality that they see today.

Every spring the Merry Monarch Festival, the premier hula competition, is held in Hilo.

Dancers from all the Hawaiian islands gather to compete.

They also come to honour the legendary king who helped return the ancient practice to its rightful place at the center of Hawaiian culture.

Hula dancers are judged on interpretation, style, and the authenticity of their costumes, the way a skirt is wrapped or fastened, the colour of the cloth, and flower arrangements.

Many hope Hawaii's hula revival will be a major step toward preserving ancient traditions for future generations.
