The fertile hills between Florence and Siena home to some of the world's best-known vineyards.

This is Chianti, one of Italy's renowned wine regions.

Grevit, population 4, 000 is the center for the wine trade and other local products like mushrooms and cheese.

This is a place that appreciates tradition.

Greve is a place where time is never rushed.

Our challenge and our duty is to try to maintain the soul, the essence, the specialness of Greve, in Chianti and all the other slow cities.

Drove's mayor and mayors from three other Italian cities created the Slow Cities League.

Their mission to keep their hometowns from moving into the fast lane.

Out of that sprang the slow food movement.

It's simple, preserve the pleasures of good living, good food, family and friends.

Now the movement has gone international, more than 66, 000 members worldwide.

It's very nice to live here because we have a nice atmosphere, we have a nice landscapes and so when you have nice things.

To see a nice place to live in, it's very easy.

Salvatore Toscano left the fast life behind.

He ran an American-style restaurant in Florence, where he spent his days serving up burgers.

Five years ago, he dumped his French fryer, and move to Grevé where he's opened a new restaurant.

It means taking the time.

Finding the rhythm that lets you live more calmly in a lot of ways starting of course with what you eat.

In the mountains of Castoia, in northern Tuscany, generations of farmers have produced a pecorino cheese.

they say he is one of a kind, made from the raw milk of black sheep, the cheese is hand-molded twice a day.

But this tradition had been dying out, until slow food stepped in.

With a campaign to organize the farmers and promote the chieves, both are making a comeback.

It's brought us a kind of notoriety.

Not everyone knew about our product.

The project is getting us noticed.

From Singapore to Macau, from New York and Rome, you always find the same pizza, the same hamburgers.

Slow food doesn't want this; slow food wants the specialness of every product to be respected.

Grevé is not trying to escape the modern world.

It's a city that is simply enjoying itself, doing its best to take it slow.