
For a country rich in culture, architecture, food, history and scenic beauty, look no further than France.

The third largest country in Europe, France has a diverse landscape from its snow covered Alps to its fertile wine producing regions to its Mediterranean shores.

Despite its relatively small population of roughly 60 million, France's culture and political traditions have had a tremendous impact on much of the world.

Walk down this centuries old capital and it's no Wonder why some 15 million visitors travel here every year.

Its architecture, its green open spaces, its cafes, monuments and museums, and of course its famed river, the Seine make this city of light, as Paris is also known, one of the most beautiful cities in the world.

One of Paris hottest attractions is also its highest, The Eiffel Tower, standing just over 1,000ft tall.

When it was built for the 1889 World's Fair, it was only supposed to be a temporary exhibit.

Today it's the unofficial symbol of Paris and the whole of France.

But it does have competition.

The Louvre, just one of more than 100 museums in Paris, attracts 5.7 million people each year.

Many hoping to catch a glimpse of probably the world's most recognizable painting, Mona Lisa.

There are many famous icons in Paris, such as the Arc de Triomphe, the cathedrals of Sacre Coeur and Notre Dame.

And there's world renowned shopping along the Champs Elysees.

Just outside of Paris, the palace of Versailles stands as a majestic testament to the kings and queens who once ruled France.

Their extravagant lifestyles ultimately led to the downfall of France's centuries old monarchy.

On July 14, 1789, French citizens revolted against the privileged nobility.

So stormed the medieval fortress called the Bastille and sparked a bloody revolution that led to democracy in France.

Thousands of people were guillotined during the French Revolution, including the French King Louis XVI and his queen Marie Antoinette.

The ideals of the new republic's government were summed up in three words, Liberty, equality and fraternity.

Today the country is a dynamic democracy with an executive, judicial and legislative branch not unlike the United States.

France has had a long history with the US during the American Revolution, France fought on the side of the colonies, thanks in large part to the efforts of a gallant Frenchman, the Marquis de Lafayette.

This friendship continued and in 1886, France gave the United States one of its most famous symbols of freedom, the Statue of Liberty.

The people of France have always had a strong sense of nationhood and cultural identity which continues to this day.